and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business
growth show delighted to be joined by
rob illege today rob's the ceo
of social republic the global social
media agency
trusted by ambitious famous brands such
as ebay
pioneer and the red cross rob has been
featured by forbes
management today and international
business times
rob a very welcome to the show square
how are you doing i'm not right mate how
are you
not too bad on this end um sir as we're
saying we've had a rare warm warm day
this this morning this today so it's a
nice blessing
on a cold wintry february day so uh
we've got that bit to gleam onto until
things open back up in the uk
oh absolutely it's beautiful today
beautiful
lovely so rob excited for this one we're
going to be talking
all about how how we how people tuning
in can start a business
with no money um so i want to check you
in that depend first and foremost why
are we going to start a business with no
cash at all rob what's the point in that
it's that's a good question um i
wouldn't recommend
starting with no money i mean that's
kind of how i did it i mean the more
cash
you've got the better um i i got asked
by my old um
high school to go and give a talk to
peoples and
told them about my story and about
starting the business with no money and
and not the strategy i would start a
campaign with now
but let's just say that um but yeah um
it was just the position i found myself
in but i feel like um this is five years
ago so
i do feel like even if you don't have
the money to start
or to start a business or you don't
think you have
um there are lots of ways that you can
start a business and generate revenue
without you know a huge budget
got it but when you started yours you
pretty much bootstrapped it from from
fresh right
yeah and i said about i want to say
about 60 pounds
left in my bank account um with a month
ago
in terms of paying the rent and again i
wouldn't necessarily recommend this
um but it was a position i found myself
in and
i got to a point where kind of my
full-time role
i really didn't enjoy it and i've always
met people where
they didn't enjoy their jobs and i i
always never thought it was possible
i never thought i'd get to a point where
i didn't enjoy my job and
i remember there was a day when i was
walking and walking to work and i just
thought you know what um
i think i'm better off going on my own
i'd rather start an agency i wanted to
start an agency that was
uh transparent and flexible and did
something different
and so i actually got to that point you
know i kind of
wanted to be on my own and do something
different
as opposed to working for somebody else
and in hindsight
which is an incredible thing i wish um
which i've had a better strategy and i
wish i'd had more cash available but
yeah
totally bootstrapped absolutely
everything and everything from
the website and obviously social media
which was my background i used my
strengths and then i obviously had
contacts in place that i could well i
thought i could rely on it at that point
yeah well i think what would be because
i think this episode is going to have a
lot of value
not just for for ourselves not just for
people thinking of taking the plunge and
starting a business
but also perhaps those that have
recently started their own company or
perhaps even established business owners
that can pull a few golden nuggets
through what we chat through and some of
the strategies you've implemented rob
from from basically scratch um
so i think a good starting point would
be why why why should people look to do
it now i mean how
is is now a better time than i need to
start a company if you're thinking of
doing it
i really think it isn't people might say
a little bit crazy
with everything that's going on with a
pandemic and probably
you know pending recession and
but i think if you can start a business
now or you have started a business
within
um a pandemic and you're growing um
doesn't i don't think there's any better
time
when i started five years ago i was i
have to remember i have all there and
now i think it was around about 28
and and if you look at businesses that
are
that are born now the entrepreneurs are
you know
18 19 even you know 16 year olds are
starting their own businesses i feel
like back in 2015
it wasn't the done thing to to be an
entrepreneur that age
and it was a traditional route which i
took
and which many people did of going to
college
university and then you get a full-time
role then you might work in an
industry for 10 15 years and then you
might think about starting a business
um in hindsight i wish i'd started my
company sooner
but i really do feel like at the time i
might not be
taking it seriously if i had gone down
that route rather than
spending years working in the industry
and building up contacts
and which all kind of played into my
favor eventually
and it was kind of the old adage that
it's not what you know it's who you know
and
and i basically went to the people and
that i knew
and started the business from there but
yeah and
i do feel like at any age you can start
a business these days and there's so
many tools the technology available
um to do it on like you say you know in
the bootstrap way
um it's definitely um there's potential
there
yeah so on that note is it is it
something that we shouldn't perhaps
overthink rob so appreciate your condi
um your situation might have been a bit
different to some others
but is there is there a time where it
comes to we've planned it for this much
we know we've got the expertise we know
the industry that perhaps about to go in
we've perhaps already got some contacts
or clients we could pull in
um do we need to spend days and days
weeks and weeks months and months
building up a plan
or is it sometimes like you said just a
case of taking the plunge throwing
yourself at the deep end and cracking on
with it that's a
very good question and i think the
longer
you have to plan the and the more
experience you have in the industry then
then great but it's something you're
very passionate about and you want to
say the plunge
absolutely you know you know do it now
um there's no reason why
why you can't um i
would love to say i would love to do
podcasts and interviews and
go back to my high school and say yeah
you know the best strategy in place
i really didn't um i left my job on the
friday
and had a few drinks over the weekend
then i got to monday
i thought oh crap um i don't have a job
i'd have a salary i've got my month to
pay a rent
rent to pay in a month um what am i
gonna do
um and i started my strategy from there
and
luckily having you know experience
within the industry i wanted to go into
and
i don't know if you've seen homeland but
when uh oh yeah
carrie has you know her her wall of um
i guess targets in terms of people she's
trying to track down
um i basically built a wall like that
looks a bit like a crazy person but
um if you came into my apartment at the
time so i had
kind of what i wanted to build in the
middle and then everything
uh spanning out from there so how i was
going to achieve that so whether that
was through
um social media pr and
literally you know getting in touch with
people that i knew
and my journey kind of took the
progression of i don't even see pursuit
of happiness with
with will smith yeah a bit of a modern
day version of that so basically what i
did was
um i created a website just from scratch
using a wordpress stream
uh wordpress thing cost me about 20 or
something
i just built something basic so people
who didn't know me
or the agency i built had something to
go to and
um what i did was i just made a list of
all the people i knew and i worked with
in the past
and i started with um the people i knew
really well
at the top and the people i didn't know
um sorry the other way around
the people i didn't know very well at
the top and the people that i knew
really well
and obviously it's a lot easier than
than will smith did in pursuit of
happiness but
um literally called everyone and in the
morning
started with you know the person at the
top and it's when you get towards
four o'clock in the afternoon and you've
just had no's
you know throughout the day or it's not
the right time blah blah blah
and that you kind of just have to throw
your ego and pride
out the window and just you know um
suck it up and just bring the people who
you you don't really want to ask for
help
you can see what i mean uh the people
you know really well so old bosses
family friends
and investors always say you know the
first place you should go for is the
three f's which is friends family and
fools
and to invest in your business uh lovely
um mine was uh people i previously
worked with
and knew how good i was um within social
media so
i got my break from that within my first
day people my first two clients but it
was
um it was hard to do it's hard to pick
up the phone and speak to those people
and say look i need some help here you
know can you um do you want to work with
me so
yeah i was i was fortunate but luckily i
had that experience
um but that's not to say if you don't
have that experience you couldn't
achieve it
and if you've got passion for something
then you definitely can so that's a good
starting point
so essentially we're talking about
leveraging your existing network right
rub
so thinking about in your case all the
contacts that you've got
starting with it sounds like the warmest
first and then
downwards of perhaps the most colder so
perhaps the people you've got the least
good relationship with
and i think actually to be phased it's
almost the opposite way round
i should have started with the people i
knew at the top because they're the
warmest
it was purely an ego thing uh pride you
know
not wanting to ring people and say hey
can you give me a shot um
so i just thought well start with the
people you don't know very well did they
say no it doesn't really matter
it's no kind of skin up your nose um
whereas it should have been the other
way around really thinking about it
yeah so you you went through that list
you persevered
got some got some clients it sound like
from from from
from those calls i guess it's just a
case of ploughing through
plowing through that really just
persevering like you say because not
everyone wants to be cold
calling or even if it is people you know
a little bit it's probably not that far
off depending on how much you've spoken
to them
and just cracking and getting getting
your head down and
and getting the getting the work done
really um which is
sometimes what business is about when
once you've got the task you've just got
to do it
so is is was there a next stage
rob for yourself so you set up set up a
site started calling contacts that you
had
and then what what was what's the kind
of next play that you that you did or
that you'd advise
for people to look into i found that um
the best referrals you can get all the
best pieces of work you can get in a you
know a service-based business is
referrals
and people who know you and people who
work with you before
and and you find you start to find that
as you start to
gain clients it's almost like a snowball
effect more and more people will
recommend you um and you know people you
might maybe even forgotten about or got
your work with um will get in touch and
you just kind of get a bit of luck and
the only thing with that is it's not
scalable you can't rely on referrals
forever and so you have to look at other
methods of bringing in
work and that's what i started to do
got it okay um and just i mean in terms
of the
the strategy when you're reaching out to
contacts because i do like to know kind
of how people actually generate leads
generate sales
was it was it just the case where you
called them up and just said hi mate
i've started a new company can you can
you buy something from me or was it was
there a bit more to it than that
um no it's pretty much that night
obviously the first thing you need to
have is an offering
and obviously now we would run more
sophisticated campaigns you know in
terms of
the brands we're looking to work with
and do they actually need this service
uh where are they lacking at the moment
and whereas back then it was kind of
i kind of hit and hope i guess uh in a
way but that's the sort of stuff you
have to do you know when you
you started your business when you're
growing it and yeah making sure it was
relevant so the people you're calling up
and do they need social media services
is their brand
like in that service or is there
something is there a value that i can
add to their
their company um and obviously having
the industry
kind of expertise i could back up that
you know
the work i'd done which definitely
helped
yeah okay and then moving things forward
so you mentioned referrals
has been quite a powerful tool for
yourself is there a strategy
that you've got for that rob is there a
set system that you've got for referrals
and how you ask for them
um i guess again just just do it
just go and ask for it and ask if does
somebody
in particular you want to work with i
mean linkedin is great for this and
i might mention linkedin a lot and i
just have to say i'm not being paid by
them
and not not yet anyway um but linkedin
is
an amazing tool whether using the free
platform or
um you know the paid for version and
if there's somebody in particular you
really want to work with and you're
always better off
starting at the top really start with
the people that you want to work with
the most
and and do that first because they are
the hardest ones to reach
and but there might be somebody that you
know that knows them and the best way to
find out is through linkedin so
that's what i started to do um as part
of my second
strategy to to build revenue and
referrals
uh was looking at linkedin and
identifying people now i had my kind of
base set up
so that's how i started got it so you
just found basically people you wanted
to do business
with and then looked if you had any
connection to them was it
in terms of people you already knew that
could introduce you or
yeah so you can obviously using linkedin
you can ask for
recommendations but it's it's not as
organic
and as natural as you might um on the
receiving end so
you usually ask that person to maybe
send them a text message or give them a
call or something else something that's
a bit more natural to them what do they
expect
if you if you just get something through
linkedin
they might not respond um so we looked
at i say we
me at the beginning and i looked at
industries that i was working in at the
time and so
that didn't compete with my existing
clients and
industries i'd already worked in uh so i
used to work in the
the legal tech and fintech industries so
that was kind of my
expertise as you if you will so i went
up to those initially
and you know play these strengths and
then you can build from that
yeah that makes perfect sense so looking
out for the industries you can actually
help
targeting those accounts and looking for
referrals
yeah makes perfect sense right okay so
we've we've built a list that we've
worked through
through our contacts we've started
leveraging some referrals um
what's kind of the next step that you
took rob what you'd recommend
um i'd say the next step was really
designing what i want
what i wanted from the business and you
can make a lot of money being a
freelancer
um you can make a lot of money you know
having a company with just
yourself and what i really wanted to do
was scale
and the kind of grand plan what we're
doing now is to build an agency that
offered experts on demand and that was
different to
every other agency out there so i could
have stayed on you know as a consultant
and just you know being the only person
within my business
and i think um it's up to the individual
there's lots of people i meet who are
very
you know very happy um being freelancers
because
it offers them flexibility within their
life whether they've got children
or they just want to be on their own
that's absolutely fine
chose the other route and then with that
obviously comes staff which
is a very very interesting experience
um so yeah i mean five years on
i like to say we've finally
nailed it and it took five years um
in terms of company culture ethics and
what we believe in
and finding the right people to fit
within that business
and you obviously have to start
somewhere so you start with your first
employee
and you will learn a lot along the way
and it can take
weeks months years to really figure out
um
i i guess if you use the managing people
within
another business previously and you
you're
better suited to that but it's a little
bit different when you're a business
owner it's not like
managing a team internally it doesn't
matter how many people you manage
when you're the business owner and then
you have to manage people
and it's very different and then once
you've got you
your first employee um the second
employee and then
the more you employ and i had a mentor
who
um i think they i think their agency has
about 200 staff
and he told me in my first couple of
years that
as you grow um it actually gets harder
and he was right because
you may have 10 15 staff but then
everyone you bring in has to fit within
that culture and it just gets you know
more difficult and difficult
um how do you before we go on how do you
think that you can tell
if you're cut out to like you say just
be perhaps a one-man banner consultant
freelance whatever way you want to put
it
that might be quite flexible might give
you the chance to earn big
um yeah or whether you want to scale
something like you said
and whether you want to start employing
people whether you want to build
something big
what do you think are some of the the
qualities or some of the things you need
to think about
before you take the plunge and just say
yep i'm going to hire a bunch of staff
and i'm going to ramp this thing up big
time or i'm going to stay myself i'm
going to have a
kind of flexible lifestyle and earn okay
money
it's a good question and i think it
comes down to mindset
so whether you've got a fixed mindset or
a mindset
mindset that is a little bit more
flexible um
and in terms of visioning and
i was part of natwest's entrepreneur
accelerator
from around about our second year as a
business
and they taught us this visioning
technique where you literally would
write down
in the next five years where do you see
yourself living have you got children
and
do you have any pets and what does your
business look like
have you got staff and what do those
employees think of you
and and then if you say for example if
sold that business what do you want your
kind of legacy to be
so i think visioning is very important
and first of all
some people might not be cut out for
managing other people or just don't want
to
and i think you'd know very quickly and
for those who are thinking about doing
it
and i'd definitely say look at all the
support
you can get from the government or
grants or anything else uh
apprenticeship apprenticeships or
internships and
and and go for it and definitely try it
if you
if you have that vision to to build and
scale the business
and exactly where
someone makes that decision is i guess
done to the person but i think
um that visioning technique definitely
helps
that's that's really interesting that's
something i use quite a lot actually
and i love the fact that you actually
put an inspector where do i want to go
with this in five years
and then i suppose if you think about
the end point if you have that in mind
you can actually think what makes more
sense whether you're gonna
take on all these staff that might be
more hassle short term might be more
time and effort to get things right um
or whether you want to keep things a bit
a bit more simple perhaps and that's
quite often sorry rob you go ahead oh
thank you and it's interesting that
obviously with lockdown
um there wasn't a lot to do with the
weekend so i had a bit of a you know
spring clean
uh over the winter and then i found
this visioning document that i put
together i think it was about
three years ago i want to say and it's
really interesting to see what's on
there
and i'm only a couple away a couple of
years away from what
i've envisioned um
and some of those things haven't changed
at all uh some of them are exactly the
same which is really nice to see and
it's nice
to see that some of the things you might
think are maybe materialistic
my attitude has changed that so i don't
kind of want that anymore
and there's things that are more
important in my in my life
and i think one of the
great exercises we did as well was was
really working out
time so what we would do is you'd sit
down with them
with a coach and you you'd look at the
amount of time you spend on
each task every single day and as an
entrepreneur or small business owner you
wear
every single hat so you're doing 100 of
everything
now what you want to do is look at all
those things you're doing
and work out the ones you really don't
want to do like every day you're like
you know kind of eat the frog thing like
you do it first because
you really don't like it so for me
accounting
finance that just wasn't for me and
so then work out do i need to bring in
an accountant in-house
probably not you could probably go to an
accountant and
or you could get someone who's
self-employed who's got their own
business and support them
and if it's marketing and you just don't
understand
marketing or social media should you
bring somebody no should you go to an
agency
that exercise really helps as well
because you can really figure out
okay do i need stuff and it's something
we looked at um
in terms of the things i was doing uh
the things that other people were doing
and
where we we need to fill gaps
essentially to grow
and so you could work out oh actually
well i could just employ a company to do
this or i could get a freelancer or
i could scale a lot quicker by bringing
somebody in and mould them to that
within that role yeah so playing playing
to your strengths really so in your case
like actually didn't like account so i'm
i'm much the same i'm terrible at maths
certainly
that's that's why we've got an
accountant that's good here they can
kind of do stuff a lot faster than we
can
so play into your strengths that makes
perfect sense so i love what you said
casting back to to thinking where you
want to take the business in five years
which is actually
quite quite a common question i ask
people with their digital marketing so
if they're thinking about getting a
website thinking about doing seo they're
thinking about growing online i say
okay let's pretend we did this in 12
months or imagine we're 12 months down
the
down the line where would you want to
get to to be able to say working with us
was a great move
and if they don't have a vision if they
just say i'm not sure
it's like not really sure if there's
gonna be a fit if there's no real vision
no real need if they say look i want to
get this many leads as many clients so
they have a clear definition of where
they want to get to it just helps so
much
um and it puts the end goal puts the
point in mind
so it's a really strong thing to do so i
like that um
okay so moving this back to more actual
sense so is there any um
i know you're big on big on social rob
so are there any other
kind of free platforms free tools that
once we've tapped into our existing
network once we started leveraging
referrals are there any other things
that we need to think about
that we can really ramp things up with
our business
that can perhaps save us time save us
funds initially
and help us see that growth in terms of
revenue yeah absolutely
people listening probably heard of a lot
of these tools and
may haven't may not have used them
before or thinking about using them
or may not have heard them at all and
hubspot being one for general kind of
marketing so
there's different platforms with hubspot
you can have a sales platform or a
marketing platform
again where you're you know stick to
strengths if
you um are struggling in one particular
area
hubspot might have the answer and they
have you know three options
uh email platforms like mailchimp offer
you know
a free version and through to
scheduling platforms like buffer or
hootsuite and then
obviously social networks are the main
ones and
you can create content you can reach
target audiences um
for absolutely nothing through organic
content or you can
invest a little bit especially if you're
looking at platforms like
instagram tick tock and facebook
generally costs are going to be
going to be quite low um yeah social
media obviously
is my is my favorite and
linkedin for me and we grow
a lot of our business organically
through through linkedin content
through personal profiles and it's
in terms of the algorithm it's the the
strongest
if you compare personal profiles and
company pages and
the linkedin algorithm is somewhat
primitive
in comparison to the likes of instagram
and facebook which
gives us an advantage because it's
easier to to
create engagement if that makes sense
yeah and you can do that for not
absolutely nothing if you just have a
good content strategy in place
and you consistently post out content
that people want to engage with
and you can create a lot of engagement
and for service-based business in
in particular your target audience is
there on that platform
so it makes absolute sense to be to be
using it
yeah and let's say for example perhaps
we can give something
solid here if we are let's go service
based business
and we are our clients do hang out on
linkedin you mentioned a content
strategy
is there a rough strategy you could
share with us that people can put into
play and pick up fairly fast
i can yes and so if you don't want to
get in touch with
us at social republic and put your own
strategy in place um the first thing is
to look at is then
is your goals um what do you really want
to achieve and
what does success look like um you can
have all the likes and comments in the
world and engagement and reach
and a lot of people call these vanity
metrics and
while they do play a part um they might
not necessarily
generate revenue so what do you want to
achieve is it just a brand awareness
piece that you're
looking to run on they're actually
looking to generate leads and sales so
first of all work that out because then
you can see how campaigns
are performing every week every month
you know every year and if you are
creating
a great content strategy and are you
getting more people to your website and
in turn is that increasing leads and
then i think second
one of the most important is audiences
so who are you
really looking to target who are the
personas so
you might have one product but lots of
different people that
can potentially buy that product or
service so put yourself in their shoes
and really create content that they're
likely to engage with or
what you can do in in a smart way is
create content that you know a section
of people will engage with
and then it will then drop into the
feeds of the people you're trying to
target that makes sense
that's kind of a long term plan but it
does work
i've heard that rob tell me a bit more
about how that works
so basically what you would do is there
are certain types of users on linkedin
um that will engage with particular
pieces of content
there's certain uh people who you know
are active uh in the uk on linkedin
and are active in different industries
and
what you want to do is work out whether
they're connected
to the people you actually want to
target which you can do very easy by
connecting with them
and looking at connections and then what
you can do is
make sure those people see your content
and engage with it and once if they
comment on a
you know a post that you put out it will
then drop into the
the other person's feed so it's a very
very long term strategy but
it doesn't work okay so basically
tapping off
other people's networks so contacts of
other people that might engage on your
content
absolutely it's like um if you follow a
particular account on instagram
based on the people that are following
them if you then get them to
engage with your content their followers
are going to see which intern
promotes promotion or you basically
right
gotcha okay and then once you've
identified audiences
um look at platforms so everybody
you know it's every business does it uh
a new business starts and
they think social media right i've got
to be on every single platform
um but only be on the platforms where
your audiences are
actively engaging um there's no point
being on
twitter if your audience isn't there and
if you're selling a service to
uh 40 year old males plus you know
the likelihood of them being on tick
tock is a lot smaller than say 18 to 25
year olds so
really do your research in terms of what
platforms your audiences are using
and play these strengths again and use
those platforms and use them well
and commit more of your time into the
ones that are actually going to get you
the results
and there might be somewhere say you're
a service-based business
and the majority of your audience is on
in
is on linkedin but you believe that they
may use
instagram and maybe during the personal
personal time you might want to keep
that instagram feed
active for other reasons and focus more
time on
linkedin for cool
okay so essentially to to recap work
which i which i like
start with the the goals in mind which i
know for sure when i first started on
linkedin i didn't i just
posted any old nonsense um it wasn't
until i really refined
is this content actually going to be
useful helpful
or entertaining for my idol customer
um and then once you start doing that or
once i started doing it anyway i saw
that
my engagement dropped but the amount of
inquiries that i actually got
started going up which although it hurt
my ego a bit because i wasn't getting
as many likes and comments i started
getting one price so it worked out
better for our bank account
um and then i guess that comes with
looking at your target audience
thinking about who you actually want to
pinpoint who you
want to be doing business with and i
liked your tip in terms of leveraging
other people's networks that might
engage
and then thinking about the platforms
that your ideal customers actually hang
out on
um are there any other things we
appreciate we're coming up to time
rob there any other considerations we
should think about about the stuff we
actually
put out there on the interwebs yeah i
think
um the fourth one there's kind of four
and five um
so the fourth one will be content and
the fifth one could be measurement so
um you know if you're putting content
out is it actually working it that kind
of links into your goals
the fourth one is um around content and
what i do in particular on linkedin is i
have different content pillars so
my are kind of my three are educate
entertain and inform so the educate
might be around uh a new feature on
instagram for example or if tiktok's
just created a new
uh feature i'll share that and it just
shows that
i'm active within the industry and i've
got my finger on the pulls
i know what i'm talking about and it
also helps people as well so if there's
social media managers out there that may
not have seen this new feature they
might see them
you know through my linkedin post so i
think oh you know give that a try now
next campaign
so that's one and the second one
entertain uh you might see a lot of
memes
um that kind of is my personality
and it's quite difficult to show your
personality if you're not
sharing videos or pictures of yourself
so my
personality shines through memes um if
anyone's seen them i apologize
um but that just shows that i'm a normal
person
and i'm not just this ceo of beyond the
company
and then inform is anything around kind
of what we're doing in terms of the
business
and kind of press releases any new
clients we're working with um
or anything else kind of business
related and
it does help to have those those brand
pillars so separate
what you want to share and equally what
people want to engage with
yeah and it links us all back nicely to
taking it back to those goals
i guess it gives people a nice variety
of content as well so you're not always
putting out the same stuff
and yeah just like many of our guests
have said on
it gives it gives people insight into
the human behind the computer behind the
smartphone screen
who's actually there gives gives them a
bit of a flavor for you as a person
rather than just the the perhaps the
text the pictures that you're putting up
there
gives them a flavor of what it's like to
work with you so yeah love that man rob
um really appreciate you coming on dude
thanks very much for sharing thank you
no worries thanks for sharing how we can
start a business with with no
or next to no cash um but for anyone
that wants to learn more about rob
illage
what is the best way to connect with you
and to do business with you tell us a
bit more about your company
definitely um connect with me on
linkedin and that's where you find me
most of the time sharing memes and yeah
definitely going to touch on linkedin
or you can contact me or the team at
social republic
which is socialhyphenrepublic.com
awesome thanks once again rob appreciate
it thank you
cheers dude we'll put all those links in
the show episode notes over at
businessgrowth.marketing
and if you enjoyed this show be sure to
hit subscribe for business growth show
we interview business leaders each and
every week to provide actionable tips
across marketing
across sales all with the goal to grow
your business
and with that we'll catch you on the
next episode